1. Confluence-
Confluence is a team workspace where knowledge and collaboration meet. Dynamic pages give your team a place to create, capture, and collaborate on any project or idea.

2. CMDB
CMDB stands for Configuration Management Database. It is a centralized database that stores information about the configuration items (CIs) in an IT environment. A CI can refer to any component or item that is part of an IT infrastructure, including hardware, software, network devices, servers, applications, and more.


Server-1 -> Inactive
Key features and benefits of a CMDB include:

1. Configuration Item Management
2. Relationship Mapping
3. Change and Incident Management
4. Reporting and Analytics
5. Integration with ITSM Tools

CI - Configuration Items

3. Checkmarx -
Checkmarx is a software security company that provides solutions for identifying and fixing security vulnerabilities in software applications. They specialize in Static Application Security Testing (SAST), also known as static code analysis.
Some key features of Checkmarx's CxSAST solution include:

1. Static Code Analysis
2. Wide Language Support
3. Vulnerability Detection
4. Integration with Development Tools
5. Reporting and Remediation


4. SonarQube -
SonarQube is an open-source platform that provides continuous code quality management and static code analysis for various programming languages. It helps developers and teams identify and address code quality issues, security vulnerabilities throughout the software development lifecycle.
Key features and capabilities of SonarQube include:

1. Static Code Analysis
2. Code Quality Metrics
3. Security Vulnerability Detection
4. Reporting and Dashboards
5. Integration with Development Tools



5. E2E Testing -
To check responses from devops tools
200 ok url - jenkins.infosys.com 
             jfrog.infosys.com

API Calls - swagger 



6. OWASP (Open Web Application Security Project) -
   DAST - Dynamic Application Security Testing -

1. Vulnerability lists
2. Security Resources
3. Security testing framework


OWASP highlights -
1. Injection
2. Broken Authentication
3. Sensitive data Exposure
4. Broken access control
5. Insufficient logging & monitoring







Cluster Roles- 
AmazonEKSClusterPolicy
AmazonEKSServicePolicy



Nodegroup Roles-
1. AmazonEKSWorkerNodePolicy
2. AmazonEKS_CNI_Policy
3. AmazonEC2ContainerRegistryReadOnly
 


eksctl create cluster \
  --name demo-cluster-31 \
  --region us-east-2 \
  --version 1.32 \
  --nodegroup-name linux-nodes \
  --node-type t2.medium \
  --nodes 2 \
  --nodes-min 2 \
  --nodes-max 4 \
  --managed


Step 1: Check current cluster version - 

aws eks describe-cluster \
  --name demo-cluster-31 \
  --region us-east-2 \
  --query "cluster.version" \
  --output text


step 2 : Check supported upgrade versions

aws eks describe-addon-versions \
  --addon-name kube-proxy \
  --region us-east-2 \
  --query "addons[].addonVersions[].compatibilities[].clusterVersion" \
  --output text | sort -u


Step 3: Upgrade the EKS control plane

aws eks update-cluster-version \
  --name demo-cluster-31 \
  --region us-east-2 \
  --kubernetes-version 1.33


Step 4: Upgrade eksctl / kubectl (optional but recommended)


kubectl version --client

aws eks describe-cluster \
  --name demo-cluster-31 \
  --region us-east-2 \
  --query "cluster.version" \
  --output text


Step 5: Update Node Groups

List nodegroups:

eksctl get nodegroup --cluster demo-cluster-31 --region us-east-2


Upgrade nodegroup(s):

eksctl upgrade nodegroup \
  --cluster demo-cluster-31 \
  --name linux-nodes \
  --region us-east-2


Step 6: Verify Upgrade

aws eks describe-cluster \
  --name demo-cluster-31 \
  --region us-east-2 \
  --query "cluster.version" \
  --output text


kubectl get nodes -o wide


Step 7 : Create a new node group -

eksctl create nodegroup \
  --cluster demo-cluster-31 \
  --region us-east-2 \
  --name linux-nodes-131 \
  --node-type t2.medium \
  --nodes 2 \
  --nodes-min 2 \
  --nodes-max 4 \
  --managed


kubectl get nodes -o wide


Step 8 : Delete old node group -

eksctl delete nodegroup \
  --cluster demo-cluster-31 \
  --region us-east-2 \
  --name linux-nodes




1. ImagePullBackOff: Verify the pull secrets are set correctly and double-check the image name and tag.
 2. CrashLoopBackOff: Review the container logs and make any necessary changes to resources or configurations. 
3. ErrlmageNeverPul: Instead, set the policy for pulling images to Always or IfNotPresent.
4. ImagePullError: Verify that your credentials and the image repository are accurate. 
5. InvalidlmageName: Correct any errors in the tag and image name.
6. DeploymentFailed: Verify that resources are available and review the deployment configuration.
7. PodNotFound: Verify the accuracy of the pod name and namespace.
8. ContainerCreating: Review the container setup and verify that the image is reachable. 
9. DeadlineExceeded: Workload should be streamlined or the pod deadline extended. 
10. FailedScheduling: Examine the pod's resource requests and node availability.
11. Failed Validation: Fix any typos or configuration errors.
12. InvalidConfig: Check the syntax and structure of the configuration file. 
13. KubeletError: Examine the node's status and kubelet logs.
14. MemoryLimitExceeded: Increase the memory limit or increase the productivity of the workload. 
15. NodeNotReady: Check the availability and status of the node. 
16. NodeUnreachable: Verify the node's network settings and connectivity. 
17. PodDisruptionBudgetExceeded: Either improve workload management or modify the pod disruption budget.
18. PodNotReady: Examine the state of the pod and make sure the container is ready. 
19.ResourceQuotaExceeded: Either optimize the workload or raise the resource quota. 
20. ServiceUnavailable: Verify that the service configuration is configured correctly.








 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 1

What is the difference between a Deployment and a ReplicaSet in Kubernetes?

A Deployment is a higher-level object in Kubernetes that manages ReplicaSets. A Deployment ensures that a specified number
 of replicas of a pod are running at all times, while a ReplicaSet simply ensures that a specified number of replicas of a
 pod are running.






 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 2

What is a StatefulSet in Kubernetes?

A StatefulSet is a Kubernetes object that manages stateful applications, such as databases, message brokers, and other stateful
 applications that require persistent storage. Unlike a Deployment, a StatefulSet provides stable network identities, persistent 
storage, and guarantees the order of deployment and scaling.







KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 3

A cluster administrator has a set of pods running a database that need to be accessed by other pods in the cluster.
 What type of Service should the administrator use to allow the other pods to access the database?

A StatefulSet is a Kubernetes object that manages stateful applications, such as databases, message brokers, and 
other stateful applications that require persistent storage. Unlike a Deployment, a StatefulSet provides stable network 
identities, persistent storage, and guarantees the order of deployment and scaling.






 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION-4



What happens when a Persistent VolumeClaim is deleted in Kubernetes?

When a Persistent VolumeClaim is deleted in Kubernetes, the associated Persistent Volume is released,
 and the storage resources that it represents are returned to the available storage pool. The data stored in the
 PersistentVolume 
is not deleted and can be recovered if necessary. However, the PersistentVolume itself is no longer bound to the Persistent 
VolumeClaim, and the storage resources it represents are available for use PersistentVolumeClaims. by other






 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION-5

What is an Ingress in Kubernetes and what is it used for?

An Ingress in Kubernetes is a resource that provides external access to services in the cluster.
 Ingresses are used to provide external access to services in the cluster, and to provide load balancing,
 SSL termination, and URL-based routing. Ingresses provide a way to manage external access to services in the cluster, 
and to control how incoming traffic is handled and routed to the services.






 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION-6



A cluster administrator needs to expose a web application running in a pod to the internet. What type of Service 
should the administrator use to accomplish this?

A LoadBalancer Service should be used to expose the web application to the internet. LoadBalancer Services provide external
 IP addresses that can be accessed from outside the cluster, making it easy to expose a web application running in a pod to the
 internet.






 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION-7

A cluster administrator needs to expose a set of microservices to external clients, but also wants to keep the microservices
 separate from each other. What type of Service should the administrator use to accomplish this?

A NodePort Service should be used to expose the microservices to external clients, while keeping them separate from each other.
 NodePort Services provide a way to expose individual pods to external clients, while still keeping them separate from each other
 and isolated within the cluster. This makes it possible to expose a set of microservices to external clients while keeping them
 separate and isolated from each other.






 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 8

A cluster administrator needs to provide a stable IP address for a set of replicas of a web application running in the cluster.
 What type of Service should the administrator use to accomplish this?

A ReplicationController or Deployment with a corresponding Clusterlp Service should be used to provide a stable IP address for 
the replicas of the web application. A ReplicationController or Deployment can be used to manage the replicas of the web application,
 while a ClusterIP Service can be used to provide a stable IP address for the replicas. This makes it easy to manage the replicas
 of the web application and provide a stable IP address accessing them.





 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION-9

What is a Secret in Kubernetes and what is it used for?

A Secret in Kubernetes is a resource that stores sensitive information, such as passwords, API keys, and SSL certificates,
 in a secure manner. Secrets are used to store sensitive information that is needed ded by the applications running in the cluster,
 such as database credentials and API keys. Secrets provide a way to manage sensitive information, ensuring that the information is
 stored securely and can be accessed only by the pods that need it.







 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 10

Interview Q&A

What is a Job in Kubernetes and what is it used for?

A Job in Kubernetes is a resource that runs a specified number of pods to completion, ensuring that the specified number 
of successful completions is achieved. Jobs are used to run batch jobs, such as data processing and image rendering, in the cluster.
 Jobs provide a way to run batch jobs in the cluster, en





KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 12

What is a DaemonSet in Kubernetes?

Intervis

A DaemonSet is a Kubernetes object that ensures a single instance of a pod is running on each node in a cluster.
 This is useful for deploying system-level services, such as log collectors, node-level monitoring agents, and other utilities
 that need to run on every node.






 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 13

What is the Kubernetes control plane?

The Kubernetes control plane is a set of components that manage the state of a cluster, including the API server,
 controller manager, and scheduler. The API frontend for the Kubernetes server is the control plane and exposes the 
RESTful API for managing the cluster, the controller manager is responsible for managing the state cluster, and the scheduler
 is on nodes in the cluster. of various objects in the responsible for scheduling pods








 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 14

A cluster administrator has a set of pods running a web application that need to communicate with each other.
 What type of Service should the administrator use to allow the pods to communicate with each other?

A ClusterIP Service should be used to allow the pods running the web application to communicate with each other.
 ClusterIP Services provide a stable IP address for a group of pods within the cluster, making it easy to set up 
communication between pods. By using a Clusterip Service, the administrator can provide a stable IP address for the pods 
running the web application, which the pods can use to communicate with each







 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 16

Interview Q&

A cluster administrator is running a web application that needs to be accessed by external clients over the internet. 
What type of Service should the administrator use to accomplish this?

A Load Balancer Service should be used to expose the web application to external clients over the internet. Load Balancer 
Services provide external IP addresses that can be accessed from outside the cluster, making it easy to expose a web application
 running in the cluster to the internet. By using a Load Balancer Service, the administrator can provide external access to the
 web application, making it possible for external clients to access the application over the internet.
 






KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 17

Inte

What is a Namespace in Kubernetes and why is it used?

A Namespace in Kubernetes is a virtual cluster within a cluster, and it is used to divide resources and limit scope in a cluster.
 Namespaces allow you to isolate resources and enforce resource quotas, and they are used to provide environment-specific resources,
 such as development, testing, and production environments. Multiple namespaces can be used to partition resources in a cluster and
 enforce access controls between teams and environments.





KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 18

What is a Pod in Kubernetes and what is it used for?

A Pod in Kubernetes is the smallest and simplest unit in the cluster, representing a single instance of a running process.
 Pods are used to host the containers that run the applications and services in the cluster. Pods provide a way to manage
 the deployment and execution of containers in the cluster, making it easier to manage the scaling, placement, and lifecycle
 of the containers.







 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION-22

A cluster administrator needs to provide stable IP addresses for a group of stateful pods in the cluster. 
What type of Service
 should the administrator use to accomplish this?

A Headless Service should be used to provide stable IP addresses for a group of stateful pods. Headless Services do not provide
 de a stable IP address for the Service as a whole, but instead provide stable IP addresses for each individual pod that is part 
of the Service. This makes it easy to provide stable IP addresses for stateful pods, which can be used for communication between
 pods.






 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION-23

03

What is a Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) in Kubernetes and what is its purpose?

The Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) in Kubernetes is a built- in tool that automatically adjusts the number of 
replicas of a deployment, based on observed CPU utilization or other custom metrics. The purpose of HPA is to ensure that 
a deployment has enough resources to handle incoming traffic, and it helps to maintain the desired performance levels of deployment.





 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION-24

What is Ingress in Kubernetes and what is it used for?

Ingress in Kubernetes is a resource that defines a set of rules for incoming traffic to reach the services in a cluster.
 It is used to expose services to the external network, and it provides a single entry point for external traffic into the cluster.
 Ingress can be used to perform routing, load balancing, and SSL termination for incoming traffic.

 




KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 25

What is a Cluster Role in Kubernetes and what is it used for?

A ClusterRole in Kubernetes is a resource that defines a set of permissions that can be granted to a user or group in 
a cluster-wide context. It is used to manage access to the cluster-level resources and APIs, and it can be be used to 
enforce least privilege policies. Cluster Roles can be used to access control o grant permissions for users to manage
 objects and perform actions in the cluster, such as creating, updating, and deleting resources.






 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION-26



A cluster administrator is running a stateful application in the cluster and needs to provide stable IP addresses for the pods
 running the application. What type of Service should the administrator use to accomplish this?

A Headless Service should be used to provide stable, IP addresses for the pods running the stateful application.
 Headless Services provide stable IP addresses for each individual pod, rather than for the Service as a whole. 
This makes it possible to provide applications, which rely stable IP addresses for stateful n stable n on network
 connections between pods. By using a Headless Service, the administrator can provide stable IP addresses for the
 pods running the stateful application, ensuring that the pods other in a stable and can communicate with each predictable manner.







 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 27

What is a Persistent Volume (PV) and a Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) in Kubernetes and what are they used for?

A Persistent Volume (PV) in Kubernetes is a resource that represents a piece persistent storage of storage in a cluster.
 for pods, and it It is used to provide can be backed by local storage, network-attached storage, or cloud storage. 
A Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) in Kubernetes is a request for storage.m age made by a pod, and it is used to claim 
a PV and mount it as a volume in the pod. PVCs and PVs are used together to provide persistent storage for stateful applications
 in a cluster.





KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION-28

How does Kubernetes manage storage for containers?

Kubernetes manages storage for containers using Persistent Volumes (PVs) and Persistent Volume Claims (PVCs).
 PVs represent a piece of storage in a cluster, and PVCs are requests for storage made by pods. Pods use PVCs
 to claim PVs and mount them as volumes in the pod, providing persistent storage for containers.




KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION-29

Interview QGA

What is a Service Account in Kubernetes and what is it used for?

A ServiceAccount in Kubernetes is a resource that represents an identity for processes running inside a pod.
 It is used to grant permissions to pods to access the API server and other cluster resources. ServiceAccounts can be used to
 enforce least privilege access control policies and isolate resources within a cluster.




 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 30

How does Kubernetes perform rolling updates and rollbacks of applications?

Kubernetes performs rolling updates and rollbacks of applications using deployment resources. Deployments allow you to
 declaratively update a set of replicas, and they provide a history of all updates made to the deployment. To a rolling update,
 you update the desired state of the deployment, and Kubernetes gradually updates the replicas in the deployment to the new state.
 To perform a rollback, you revert to a previous revision of the deployment, and Kubernetes gradually updates the replicas to the
 previous







KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION-32

How does Kubernetes perform load balancing for applications?

Kubernetes performs load balancing for applications using services. A service in Kubernetes is an abstraction over a set of
 pods that provides a stable IP address and DNS name. Services expose pods to the network and en a client perform load balancing 
across the pods. When a makes a request to a service, the service load balances the request to one of the pods.









 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 34

Interview Q&A

A cluster administrator needs to provide a stable IP address for a database that is running in a pod. What type of Service 
should the administrator use to accomplish this?

A ClusterIP Service should be used to provide a stable IP address for the database pod. ClusteriP Services provide stable IP
 addresses for pods within the cluster, making it easy to provide stable IP addresses for databases and other critical applications
 running in the cluster.









 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION-35

What is an ingress in Kubernetes and what is it used for?

An ingress in Kubernetes is a resource that allows external traffic to reach the services in a cluster. It defines rules for routing
 incoming HTTP and HTTPS traffic to services in the cluster. Ingress provides a way to expose multiple services under a single IP
 address and DNS name, and it provides features such as SSL termination and URL-based routing.







 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 36

Interview Q&A

What is an admission controller in Kubernetes and what is it used for?

An admission controller in Kubernetes is a pluggable component that intercepts requests to the API server and performs checks
 and validations on the incoming requests. Admission controllers are used to enforce policies and constraints on resources
 in the cluster, such as validating resource specifications and enforcing access control policies.






KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 37

How does Kubernetes perform rolling updates for applications?

Kubernetes performs rolling updates for applications using the concept of Deployments. A Deployment in Kubernetes is a higher-level
 resource that manages a set of replicas of a single application. When you update a Deployment, it creates new replicas with the 
updated version of the application and gradually replaces the old replicas with the new ones, one at a time. This rolling update 
process process ensures that there is no downtime for the application during the update.








 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 40

What is a pod security policy in Kubernetes and what is it used for?

A pod security policy in Kubernetes is a resource that defines the security requirements for pods in the cluster.
 Pod security policies are used to control the security context of pods, and to define the security constraints 
for containers in the pods. Pod security policies provide a way to enforce security best practices for containers,
 and to ensure that pods meet specific security requireme








 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION -42

Int

Imagine you are creating a deployment in Kubernetes that needs to run a container image and set some environment variables.
 How would you specify the environment variables using key notation in a YAML file?

A possible answer to this question would be:

apiVersion: apps/v1

kind: Deployment metadata:

name: my-deployment

spec

replicas: 3 selector:

matchLabels:

app: my-app template

metadata: labels

app: my-app

spec: containers:

name: my-container

Image: my-image env

name: ENV VAR 1 value: "value"

name: ENV VAR 2 value: "value"

In this example, the environment variables are specified using the env key. The key-value pairs of name and value 
specify the name and value of each environment varia








KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 43

Interview Q&A

AR

Imagine you have two microservices, "Service A" and "Service B", that need to communicate with each other in a
 Kubernetes cluster. How would you create a service in Kubernetes to expose "Service B to Service A?

A possible answer to this question would be:

10:18

apiVersion: v1 kind: Service

metadata:

name: service-b

9:06

spec selector:

app: service-b

ports:

name: http port: 80

targetPort: 8080

type: Clusterip

In this example, a Service object is created using the YAML file above. The selector key is used to specify the 
labels that identify the pods running Service B. The ports key specifies that "Service B listens on port 8080 and is exposed 
to the cluster on port 80. The type key is set to Clusterip, which means the service is only accessible within the cluster and not 
externally.


With this service in place, "Service A can communicate with "Service B using the DNS name service-b within the






KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 44

What is a Job in Kubernetes and when is it used?

A Job in Kubernetes is a higher-level object used to run batch jobs that complete a specific task. Jobs are used to run one or
 more pods to completion, and they are designed for short-lived, parallel, and fault-tolerant workloads. Jobs are used to perform
 tasks such as data processing, backups, and other batch operations.






 KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 45

What is a Kubernetes operator and what is it used for?

A Kubernetes operator is a custom controller that extends the Kubernetes API to automate the deployment, management, and
 scaling of a specific application or component. Operators are used to automate complex tasks, such as provisioning and managing 
databases, and to provide a way to manage custom resources in the cluster. Operators provide a way to automate and manage the 
lifecycle of applications and components in the cluster, making it easier to deploy, manage, and scale these resources.
 






KUBERNETES INTERVIEW QUESTION - 46

Imagine you are responsible for upgrading a Kubernetes cluster from version 1.20 to version 1.21. How would you approach this
 task to minimize downtime and ensure the cluster remains available during the upgrade process?

A possible answer to this question would be:

1.

Plan and prepare: Before starting the upgrade process, ensure

that have a

plan in place and understand the upgrade

process. Check the release notes and any Knoten issues

  